Greg Bradley: Hello,
App Store developers!
I’m Greg from
the App Store Review team.
Our goal is to help developers
find success on the App Store.
We're an international team with
reviewers on three continents,
fluent in over 80 languages,
working around the clock
to give you feedback
on your apps.
Today I’m going to share tips
from our team
to help you prepare
your apps for review
and get ahead of some of
the common issues we see.
The three tips we have for you
today will help you avoid issues
that we find on 30 percent
of rejected submissions.
These issues are as common
as they are preventable.
Implementing these tips
before you submit your app
will make your submission ready
for your customers
on the App Store,
and also ready for us
to conduct our review.
To help visualize that,
we’ll describe the journey
of two apps:
one that implements all of these
tips, and one that doesn't.
We'll call it,
"A Tale of Two Apps."
And we’ll touch on
some additional resources
you can check out
to help you before, during,
and after you submit your app.
Our three submission tips are:
test thoroughly so that your app
is ready for your customers,
tell us more about the unique
experience your app provides,
and provide access, setting us
up to do a complete review.
Let's start with testing.
Your app may have
a great concept,
but bugs and crashes
can ruin the experience.
So when we find a major bug,
or your app crashes
during our review,
we’ll let you know and do our
best to help you fix the issue.
We'll share the steps
to reproduce these issues,
and for crashes,
provide crash logs.
We review all apps
on physical devices,
not on a simulator, to mirror
actual, real-world conditions.
The issues we see will also
impact everyone using your app,
and we want to help you
prevent that.
The best time to fix a bug
or crash, though,
is before you submit.
At App Review, we review apps
the way a user would use them,
not necessarily in the way
that a proper QA team
would QA them.
A great tool to help you
do quality assurance
and beta testing on real,
physical devices is TestFlight.
TestFlight makes it easier
to resolve issues in beta
before you hit production.
You can upload beta builds
right in App Store Connect
and distribute
to internal testers
on your Apple Developer Program
account.
You can also share your
beta app to users
with iOS, iPadOS,
macOS, and tvOS devices
by inviting them via email
or by sharing a public link.
TestFlight builds are also
reviewed by App Store Review.
We may reject a TestFlight
submission if it has issues
that would prevent beta testing
or has content that would
never be on the App Store.
Our TestFlight reviews exist
to help you resolve App
Store Review guideline issues
before the app is submitted
to the App Store.
And it’s also accessed
with your developer account,
you could start testing today!
If your app is live
on the store,
and you’re submitting a critical
update to fix some issues,
we're happy to work with you
to get that update
to your customers.
This includes what we call
"bug fix submissions."
If we find an issue
with your app
during our review of an update,
we'll let you know
and ask if you'd like
to resolve the issue
on the next submission.
If so,
we'll approve the update.
It's a simple process and we'll
let you know if you're eligible
in our message to you
in App Store Connect.
Keep in mind though, apps with
legal, trust, or safety concerns
are not eligible
for this process.
All right.
Now let’s imagine
these types of preparations
in the context
of two apps being submitted.
We’ll call them
Turtlr and R-bit.
For one of these apps,
the developer took the time
to go through
an industry-standard QA process,
while the other cut some corners
and sped past the testing phase
right into submission.
If you’re familiar
with heavy-handed idioms,
you can probably guess
which one is which!
Turtlr had a full round
of QA using TestFlight,
after which the developer
was fairly certain
that it was bug free,
and it runs really nicely
on all of the tested devices.
R-bit didn't use TestFlight
and did a quick,
but noncomprehensive QA.
There were a couple
of lingering bugs,
and sometimes it crashes
when we try to sign in.
Let’s move on
to our second tip.
Tell us more about your app
when you submit!
You’ve worked tirelessly
to make an excellent app,
and we’d be happy to read about
your app’s concepts and features
in your own words.
We encourage you
to provide any information
in the App Review Information
section
on the app version page
in App Store Connect.
Are you submitting
a new app for the first time?
Tell us about
your app's concept,
how to enable key features,
and even describe
the target audience
you designed your app for.
Are you submitting
a big update?
Tell us about what’s changed
and where to locate
significant new content.
Also keep in mind
that as apps change,
we may ask you questions
you answered
on previous submissions.
This is to make sure
our understanding of your app
keeps pace with all
the improvements
and new features
added over time.
Another thing to keep in mind
is that some apps
may require additional
documentation,
such as from
a regulatory agency,
or to demonstrate authorization
to use protected content.
For example,
if you’ve worked hard
to secure regulatory approval
for an app
that syncs
with medical hardware,
you can attach the documentation
when you first submit your app.
If you’re wondering
whether or not you should
submit documentation,
it never hurts
to provide us with more
information about your app --
especially if you’re operating
in a highly regulated industry.
To learn more about apps
that may require
additional documents,
see guidelines 1.3,
1.4, 4.1, 5, and 5.2.
Remember, it’s up to you
to comply with local laws
wherever your app is available.
If we need additional
information
about any of the features
or functionality,
we'll let you know via
an Information Needed message.
But if you can anticipate
the type of questions
that a person using
your app might have,
this information could help
streamline your app’s review.
Let’s check in on our slightly
cliche metaphor real quick.
Turtlr put the time
into fully describing the app,
as well as helping us understand
who the app is for,
not only in the app description,
but in the notes for App Review.
Also, they were not sure
if we needed
documentation for
regulatory clearance,
but they’ve gone ahead
and submitted that anyway.
R-bit’s plan for marketing
their app is to be mysterious
to create some buzz,
but perhaps too mysterious
because when they submitted
the app for review,
there’s not a lot of information
about what the app is or does.
We’ll have to spend some time
figuring that out.
Even when one
launches the app,
it’s got a bit
of a learning curve.
Well, let’s move on
to our third tip
and see how that can help
streamline a submission!
We review the entire app,
so if there are
account-based features,
we need to review
the app experience
both with and without
an account.
Two ways to accomplish this
are either with a demo account,
or by creating a demo mode.
Let’s talk about
demo accounts first.
Provide us with up-to-date
login credentials
to a demo account
in App Store Connect
so that we can easily access
any account-based experience.
Ensuring the account is
up to date is an important step
because while we may
create a new account
to review the sign up flow,
you know best
the experience that you want
users with accounts to have.
If your app doesn't have
an account-creation feature,
it’s even more important
to provide this up-to-date
login information.
Also, if it makes sense to do so
based on your app’s concept,
fully featured demo accounts
populated with relevant content
can help show us your app
in its best light.
For example, if you’re creating
a social media platform,
you can populate
the demo account
with content that really shows
off the services
and experiences
your app provides.
For apps that handle
sensitive user information,
or operate in highly regulated
industries
with restrictions
on creating new accounts,
consider building in
a demonstration mode,
like one your QA
or marketing teams
may already be using.
Demonstration modes
exhibit your app’s full features
and functionality to us,
while using stand-in data.
We understand that
you may be working with data
that simply cannot be shared
externally, even with Apple.
With a demonstration mode,
you can help us understand
the entire user experience
from beginning to end
without compromising
any sensitive user information.
Let’s compare this demo
account preparation
using our thinly veiled
rabbit-versus-turtle analogy.
Turtlr’s account was
up to date and working.
This might seem like
an obvious first step
but invalid or expired
account credentials
are something we observe
rather frequently!
The account provided was
populated and looked lived in,
as if we were taking a look
at the existing account
of someone
who uses the app daily.
This created a natural
user experience for us.
It’s as if we’d been
using the app forever
even though this is
the first time we launched it!
R-bit’s demo account,
however, was expired.
Well that’s that; we’ll try
creating our own if we can,
otherwise, we'll have to ask
for some updated credentials.
Getting close
to the finish line here.
Will Turtlr or R-bit
cross it first?
Let’s put all of that together
and see the conclusion
of our Tale of Two Apps.
Turtlr followed
all of these tips
and did a couple
of relatively simple things.
They QA’d their app,
they provided
some detailed info,
and they made sure
the demo account existed
and was functional.
R-bit did a little bit
of testing,
but not enough to catch
all of the issues.
They didn't give us
or their prospective audience
much guidance
on how to use the app,
and the demo account had expired
some time before submitting.
With Turtlr, the time spent
preparing the app for submission
ended up saving them
time in the end.
They submitted the app,
and after doing
a thorough review,
we approved their submission
since there were
no other issues.
R-bit, however,
ran into a couple of obstacles.
Without a working demo account,
and having a handful
of usability issues
including some bugs
and concept clarity concerns,
it will take more time
for the app
to be ready for the App Store.
Both apps did get approved,
but by more thoroughly preparing
the app for submission,
our turtle friend here --
much like the turtle
you may have heard about
in a story or two --
ends up taking the win
at the end.
What does that time look like
in the real world?
We complete our review
in less than 24 hours
for 90 percent of apps.
Reject or approve, you’ll
typically get an answer from us
in about a day.
This means that if there are
no issues with submission,
it's likely your app will be
reviewed and approved
in under 24 hours.
If there are some things to fix,
you'll also likely know
in under 24 hours.
But, if it takes multiple
submissions to solve the issue,
it may take a few days for your
app to be ready for approval.
We understand the difference
between one day and a few days
can be significant
in the world of apps,
so we are happy
to provide these tips
to help your app
be ready for approval
without needing multiple
submissions and reviews.
We’ll close out by pointing you
to some additional resources
to keep in mind as you submit
apps to the App Store.
The first resource is
the person reviewing your app!
If you’ve heard
from App Store Review
about an issue with your app
but you don’t understand
our requirements,
you can reply to our message
right in App Store Connect
and let us know.
We’re happy to explain the issue
and help you understand
our guidelines.
If you’re facing extenuating
circumstances,
such as submitting an update
with a critical bug fix
or a time-sensitive event,
you may request
an expedited review.
Be sure to let us know
your circumstances
and we’ll do our best
to support you.
If you think we’ve misunderstood
your app
and disagree
with the outcome of our review,
you can file an appeal
with the App Review Board.
Be sure to provide
specific reasons
why you believe your app
follows our guidelines
to help the App Review Board
consider your case.
You can find links to the forms
for requesting an expedite
or filing an appeal
on the App Review page
on the Apple Developer website.
There you can also find
more tips
for preparing your app
for review
and other common issues
to look out for.
Thanks for watching our video.
We're always excited to see
the next big thing
from App Store developers,
and we look forward to helping
you find success on the store!